[Transcript missing]
In terms of its behavior, well,
it's backed up.
We're going to maintain
that in the backup set.
If it gets restored back
onto that same device,
that whole table basically
will come back down.
So it persists across as
it restores from backup.
However, we won't restore that identifier
onto a different device.
So if someone backs up an
iPhone and then purchases,
say,
a new iPhone and restores that backup
set onto that new different device,
then these identifiers won't
come along for the ride.
This is a long way of saying they
behave just like the UDID does today in
that the UDID changed across devices.
Similarly, the vendor identifier for your
apps will change across devices.
So it's the behavior that
you've had with the UDID.
So now we have two replacements.
We have that one that can be used
for your individual application,
random number,
the application identifier,
and a second one which is
shared across your applications.
But this still doesn't cover
all of the key uses of the UDID.
So we have one more new API,
and we call that the advertiser.
This is the UDID.
And it's a new UDID identifier.
This, again, is new API.
It also hangs out on
UIDevice's current device.
And you can call it with
identifier for advertising.
This identifier is unique to the device.
And it's the same across all
applications on the device.
It's used for advertising.
And, in fact, we know it works well for
advertising because iAd,
that's Apple's ad network,
has already converted over to using it.
For every device running iOS 6 or later,
iAd now uses the advertising
identifier exclusively,
and no longer uses the UDID as it
once did for advertising purposes.
If you're familiar with ads,
things like frequency capping,
conversion tracking,
this identifier works for those purposes.
Because it's not a hardware identifier,
it's something managed by software,
that means the user can reset it by
tapping erase all content and settings,
and that will create a new advertising
identifier on that same device.
And then lastly, again,
to compare it to the other ones,
this identifier is backed up.
It's restored back onto the same device.
It will persist that way.
But if you restore that
back up onto a new device,
it will be a new advertising identifier.
So this one, like the vendor ID,
behaves like the UDID in terms
of its behavior across devices.
So for the replacements for UDID,
we have these three new APIs,
the application identifier
for single apps,
the vendor identifier across
all of your applications,
and the advertising
identifier for advertising.
And they have these behaviors.
This is exactly what I said before.
It's maybe so you can
go back in the video.
The scope, lifetime,
the fact that all of them are backed up,
and the fact that only the
advertising identifier will
be restored across devices.
So you've heard me say replacements a
few times over the past ten minutes,
and so this slide shouldn't
be too much of a surprise,
that the future of UDID is no UDID.
There are these new replacement
APIs available in iOS 6,
and I encourage you to
begin your transition now.
For any new application you create,
you should build it on
top of these new APIs.
And as you update your
existing applications,
move them up.
And you can see that the new UDID is
now on top of the existing ones.
And that's because the new UDID and
similar identifiers will be
disallowed for use in the future.
And when we do that,
it's not going to change anything
about the legacy behavior of existing
applications on users' devices.
They'll still be able to call,
for instance,
the UDID and get back that same number,
so it won't be disruptive.
However,
for those new applications and updates,
use of the UDID and similar
identifiers won't be allowed.
So it's motivating.
And start your new UDID.
Bye.
Let me talk next about data isolation.
And I'll actually start
by defining the term.
Data isolation is just when the
OS is going to get between your
application and sensitive user data.
It does this in a way which is largely
transparent to your application.
It's just that you call existing API,
and that will trigger a user
consent dialogue or alert.
And you guys have seen these, actually,
for location services.
I have two examples up there.
On the left,
we have one from iOS where camera
is requesting access to location.
On the right, you can see Safari and
OS X Lion doing the same thing.
So when these alerts,
you also saw that the user could
make a yes or no choice there.
And so if the user says don't allow,
then the application doesn't get
access to whatever data is covered
by that permissions dialogue.
On the other hand, the user can say yes,
it works.
And regardless of whether the user says
yes or no to that permissions dialogue,
the OSs offer a choice for the
user to review and to change
his or her decision afterward,
a no to a yes, a yes to a no,
either by going into iOS settings or
inside of OS X system preferences.
[Transcript missing]
So let's start with the really dead
simple way of how it works today.
This is just to be
grounding for the next one,
right?
If you want data today in
a non-data isolation world,
you call createX,
you get back the thing with data, right?
It's just as simple as that.
You do it every day.
So let's talk about how Contacts works on
OS X Mountain Lion with data isolation.
Where it starts off again,
you call some address book API, say,
and then what happens is that
OS X will go and ask permission.
That dialog box will come up
requesting the user's permission.
Let's say the user says,
"Okay," so you get permission.
Then the API that you called will return
to you the object with all of that data.
So this covers the API that you can call.
It's the purpose-specific API,
which is a whole host of APIs inside
the address book framework.
Two examples might be the
shared address book or if you
init AB person or AB group.
These are the kinds of API that
will trigger that permission check.
And as you saw in that last slide,
the call does block while the user gives
or makes that choice about permission.
And so this is a user action, right?
It will take a relatively long
time compared to running code.
And so if your application is in a state
where it needs to remain responsive,
you should wrap the call to these
APIs inside of a dispatch block.
But when it comes back,
if you've been granted access,
if the user said yes,
it's just like the was before
data isolation that you'll
get back a populated object.
It has all the data.
If the user denies access to contacts,
then you'll get back a nil object.
So this is something you're
going to want to check for,
whereas it would have been unlikely
in the past that you would have gotten
back a nil object in the same way.
And then in addition to the
purpose-specific API for
the address book framework,
any other APIs which
specifically use contacts data,
so sync services, spotlight if you're
searching for a contact,
Apple script,
these will also trigger those
same permission dialogs.
So it's both the purpose-specific
APIs and other system services that
explicitly access contacts data.
So let's talk about
sandboxing and how it relates.
And they're really separate things.
The sandbox check still applies.
So for those of you that are
submitting to the app store,
sandboxed your application,
you know that the address book
is already -- it's by default,
it's outside of the sandbox.
And to bring it into the sandbox,
you have to request an entitlement.
And you should only use the
entitlements that you need.
And so in this case for contacts,
that entitlement is com.apple.security
personal information address book.
Descriptive long string.
It's actually easier just to
check inside the Xcode UI.
There's a box which says allow
address book data access.
You check that,
the exact same thing happens
in your entitlements file.
So if you have -- if you
have that entitlement,
then the sandbox check will pass,
and you'll get to that permission
check that I just went through.
But the sandbox check occurs first.
If your application is sandboxed
and does not have the entitlement
for address book data access,
then the sandbox will fail that
request even before the user
is prompted for permission.
So the two work together.
You sandbox your application
with the necessary entitlements,
and then the user gives you
permission whether or not
to access the contacts data.
And that's how it works
in OS X Mountain Lion.
Amen.
So this is the same slide,
but now let's take it from
here and talk about iOS.
And in iOS,
you have the call to create the object,
and then you get back actually
immediately an empty object.
And that's because if you think about it,
a lot of this data request happens at
launch in some of your applications.
Maybe it doesn't need to,
and we'll talk about that more later.
But your application has a
limited amount of time to launch
and needs to remain responsive.
And so that permission check is
actually done separately by the OS.
And then if you receive
access to the data,
then you'll receive a change
notification stating that
there's now data in this object.
So that initial access,
it's synchronous in the sense
that you call and it comes back.
But the permission check is
occurring outside of that.
That initial object may be empty.
So it's very important that for
the classes that support it,
you handle change notifications.
And though I'm bringing it up here
in the context of data isolation,
the change notification is something
you already should have been handling,
right?
Because in a world with
iCloud and data changing from
underneath your application,
these change notifications were
how you kept in sync already.
But in this case,
a change notification will be
more commonly occurring for
all of your applications that
are accessing contacts data.
And so it's important that you
really pay attention to it now.
Because that story that I just told,
we're finding that it might be a little
bit confusing or difficult to handle
that permission check out of band,
we actually have a new
API we'll be adding to iOS 6.
That said,
it's not in the seed that you have now,
so don't go looking for it.
And I'm now going to describe
something that we're working on.
And so if when you read it in
the release notes of a later seed
and it doesn't look like this,
well, you know, don't blame me.
I'm trying to give you
the early idea of it.
But who knows?
We may still tweak it.
But the point of this API is that you
can call it for each data class and
get your individual application status.
So you could say, okay,
does my application
have access to contacts?
And you might think that's
a yes or no question,
but as we're designing it,
this API will probably have
four different return values.
The first one is not determined.
That means your application has
never requested access to contacts,
so we literally have no
idea what the state is.
It's simply indeterminate.
The next two, more straightforward.
If you've requested
permission and been given it,
then you've got granted -- you've been
granted permission to the data class,
and we'll return that.
Or if you requested permission
and the user said don't allow,
then we'll say, no, you've been denied.
But then that last one, restricted.
So we've also enhanced restrictions,
kind of the parental controls
or things that enterprises
can do with managed devices,
to also include each of these
data classes and whether or
not the user is allowed to even
answer that permission question.
So in the case where, say,
access to contacts has actually
been disallowed from you and
that's done by restrictions,
this means that your user may not even
be able to make that choice to allow
your application access to contacts.
And so we're proposing this fourth
return value to allow you to tailor
your user experience to the cases
where your user may not have control
and therefore not be able to give
your application access to the data.
So four return values: don't know,
yes/no, and then no, but the user may not
be able to change it.
From your application's perspective,
denied and restricted will
look the same in that you don't
have access to that data class.
So I talked about the classes
that we're adding to iOS.
It's contacts, calendars, reminders,
and photos.
Let me go through each of those now,
starting on the iOS side with contacts.
So in iOS, it's access to the A/B address
book ref that's managed.
That's where the permission
check will happen.
So you know this method,
A/B address book create.
Well, we've actually deprecated in iOS 6,
and so we have a new method,
A/B address book create with options.
The options parameter is
reserved for future use,
and that pointer to the CFError is
something that can tell you
if you've been denied access.
So that'll actually be set to
a value if your application
is denied access to contacts.
Now, of course, deprecated APIs,
you should move off of them,
and so you should move on to the new one,
but I do want to be really clear that
even if you call the deprecated API,
the permission check
occurs there as well.
So permission happens no matter
which one of these you call,
but that second one gives you a little
bit of additional information in the
case where you've been denied access.
Initially, first time your app runs,
it will be in that not determined state.
And what this means concretely is that
AB Address Book Create With Options will
hand back to you,
kind of in that immediate
synchronous way,
it will give you back an
empty read-only object.
What you should then do is register
that address book instance you got with
a callback method by calling AB Address
Book Register External Change Callback.
You pass in your callback function.
And then when your callback gets called,
you should call AB Address Book Revert.
And what that does is it takes
the AB Address Book Ref that
you got initially and makes
sure that it's in sync,
which in the case of a permissions
check means that you go from an
empty read-only object to one with,
you know, 500 contacts suddenly in it,
because it's as though the
entire address book was just
synced into your copy of it.
And so you'll want to definitely
sync up the address book
reference that you got initially,
because that's how you'll
really get access to the data
after the user has said yes.
otherwise you're just holding
on to a stale instance.
[Transcript missing]
If you change the checkbox to
say whether or not you want the
application to have access to it,
then you can choose -- then the
user gets to choose whether to
quit the application or not.
: On iOS,
inside settings at the top level,
we have a new top-level
privacy item there.
You can see it with the hand icon.
And if you tap into that,
there are the five different data
classes that I've been talking about.
And then I show you
photos there on the right.
And note that text at the top
that's shown to users inside
the photos privacy area,
that photos stored on your phone
may contain other information,
such as when and where
the photo was taken.
And that's present there
to remind the users,
just as I reminded you, that photos,
along with their metadata,
are given to applications to which the
user's given their permission here.
So we also -- I talked about how
restrictions have been updated.
So if you go into restrictions
inside of settings on iOS,
then there's a new privacy section
where those same data classes are shown.
And if you tap into one of them,
you see at the top "allow changes" and
"don't allow changes." And this is where,
through parental controls or through
device management in an enterprise,
someone can choose both whether or not
the individual applications should have
access and then also whether or not
the user of that device is allowed to
change or respond to new access requests
from new applications on the device.
So this is how restrictions
plays into the data isolation.
So let me now just broaden it and
talk not about particular changes
we've made to our platforms,
but instead go through some comments on
best practices that you can apply when
you're doing data collection or doing
things that may impact users' privacy.
And most of you are probably
client-side developers,
but a lot of what I'm saying also
applies as part of business decisions
and to server programmers as well.
I think you'll see as
I go through the examples.
I'm going to cover three areas.
First is transparency and
talk about user control,
and then data collection techniques that
you can use to best respect privacy.
So starting with transparency,
privacy policy or statement.
These things are really good.
It's important for your
company to have one,
and in fact, there's a new feature now in
iTunes Connect that you can submit
a link to your privacy policy or
your privacy statement to Apple.
And in a future release,
an upcoming release of the App Store,
the page for your application
will display that link so that a
user is able to view your privacy
policy before ever even downloading
or purchasing your application.
So this is a feature
coming to the App Store,
but you can start submitting your privacy
statements now through iTunes Connect,
and then they will become visible
to users in that App Store update.
So this is a very good thing to do.
But even after explaining to the user up
front how you're going to collect data,
how you're going to use data,
if possible,
it's important to give the user
opportunities to inspect precisely what
your application is providing about them.
So if you can provide UI inside
your application or a method on the
website for the user to inspect that,
again,
it just goes to open yourselves up,
show more transparency,
and have the users be better
informed about the data collection.
Now,
you can be as transparent as you want,
but it's also important
that you give users control.
And so part of that is asking permission,
and really asking
permission with context.
So I went through the purpose strings for
the iOS and the OS X permissions dialogs.
Those are part of it.
It's also important,
and this is more under your control,
to ask when you need access to the data.
So it's a bad situation in many ways
to just ask for everything up front
when your application launches.
Number one,
it's not a great user experience.
User just bought your application,
launches it, gets a bunch of alerts.
But from a performance perspective,
if you're not needing access
to the data right then,
remember,
we're only requesting permission
when you're instantiating one of
these objects to access the data.
So if you don't need access to the data,
that actually means you're instantiating
objects you don't need to use right then,
and that's slowing down
your application launch.
So it has a performance impact.
It's better if you ask
just before you need it.
Maybe the user taps a button that says,
"Oh, I want to upload a photo or
something," and then you say,
"Oh, well,
let me go get access to the photos
database." A user's more likely
to understand why your application
needs access to that data,
not only if there's a purpose
string in the permissions dialog,
but also if they have an idea that
the action that they just took
is the one that's causing your
application to request that access.
If they can connect these
two actions in their mind,
they're more likely to understand
the context of your request.
And then lastly,
even if you've given them that
initial choice of yes or no,
it's also important to give
them control thereafter.
Maybe they changed their mind,
and it could go either way, right?
They could have said no initially,
done some additional research,
decided that they really do want
to give your application access,
or they want to turn it off,
maybe even temporarily for some reason.
And so allowing the user to
remake that choice over time is
another way to increase their
control over their privacy.
And I'm just going to
keep on beating home.
Fail gracefully,
because your application should try to
provide the best experience in light of
the control that you give in the user.
So in terms of data
collection techniques,
I really believe it's true that all
collection efforts reduce privacy.
If you're getting data,
that's impacting the user's privacy.
That doesn't mean that the data
collection is necessarily bad or
wrong or anything of that nature,
but you do have to think hard about the
negative that's coming from the data
collection and make sure that that's
outweighed by the positive in terms of
how you're improving your application,
providing a better experience to the
user or a more tailored experience to
the user so that the positives outweigh
the negatives from the data collection.
And as I mentioned,
I think that's true both on
the app and the server side.
And as you collect data from users,
it's important to remember that
holding on to rich data has risks.
I think you guys read tech news.
You've probably seen in the past couple
weeks a number of passwords being leaked.
We've seen other data
breaches in the past.
And if you have that data,
then an attacker might be able
to get access to that data.
And wouldn't it be just really
annoying for you and sad for your
company's brand if an attacker
ferreted out data that you were holding
on to that you didn't even need?
So trying to reduce the data down
to just what you need to provide
your products or services reduces
the risk to your company as well.
So let me go through some techniques
that you can keep in mind.
You're never going to use all of these.
They're never each
appropriate all the time,
but six different ways that you can
think about how to reduce the data that
you're collecting while still satisfying
your business or your engineering goals.
So I'll go through each
one of these in turn,
starting with anonymization.
So I'm going to use logline.
So let's start with this first logline.
And you can see it's something
that could be in a server log.
It could be in syslog on the device.
It could just be something you're
writing down and submitting to some
back-end analytics of your application.
But in this case, it says error,
and there's an illegal token,
and then a whole path, right?
And paths are very interesting or
scary things because if something's
in the user's home directory,
well, the home directory is named
with the user account name,
and a lot of Mac users,
that's exactly their name.
So here we've collected the fact
that this user is John Appleseed.
And in addition to that,
we know a couple other interesting
things out of this logline.
We know that there's
some Project Zanzibar,
whatever that is,
and that there's probably something
going on in fiscal year 2013.
All of this when we were really
perhaps focused on this illegal token.
So we could do better and
not collect that whole path.
Maybe you do want to know the files
that are causing illegal tokens.
Okay, so we could log this instead.
And this is clearly better
because we're not collecting all
this ancillary data that wasn't
related to the actual document.
But we still have a file name.
That file name could be named
Project Zanzibar fiscal 13,
right?
There's still a lot of information there.
And so if you're really maybe focused
on when these illegal tokens occur,
you might want to just
step back and think,
I want to know what the
type of the file is.
I don't care about the file name at all,
but I do want to know that it was
a keynote file that had this token.
That maybe tells me where
I need to go test more.
And so this would even further reduce and
make sure that there's no user-specific
string there in the way of the path or
of the file name that you're collecting,
just the type.
Let's think about aggregation and now
take that same log line but realize that
it's registering a particular event.
It might even have a
timestamp associated with it,
but it's a particular time and
instance where that token was seen.
And maybe this isn't
important to you either.
If we think back to the fact
maybe all you cared about was
that it was a keynote file,
maybe what you really care about is the
frequency at which these are occurring.
So you might just log over the
lifetime of your application
or once a day or once an hour.
You might just write down the number
of times you've seen an illegal
token in each different file type.
So here we have it occurring
21 times in a keynote file,
three times in some other kind of file,
and this would point you to the
fact that the keynote files are
a much more interesting area to
investigate than this other file type.
And in this log line,
you haven't logged anything
precisely about a single event.
It's just a record of a set of events
that occurred over a period of time.
So you're getting much less data
about the usage pattern while still
getting all the data about the
occurrence of these illegal tokens.
That's aggregation.
You can also think in terms of sampling,
statistical sampling.
So if we consider this
again as a particular event,
you can ask yourself, well,
do I need each and every event
from every single user who's
opted into my collection?
And maybe you don't.
Maybe you could say, well,
I could actually sample from just
one in ten or one in 100 or one
in 1,000 of the user's computers.
And if it's a statistically
random sample,
it will be representative
of your population,
and you'll get overall the same
distribution and same shape of the
events without actually gathering data
from the vast majority of your users.
So you've improved privacy.
You know,
90% or more of your users aren't going
to have any data collected from them.
But if you think about
it a little harder,
you're still collecting complete
pictures of those individual users.
So if you really only
care about the events,
you could go one step further and instead
sample on the basis of an operation.
So you just roll that random die each
time you're parsing a file in this case,
and if you get one in ten or
one in 100 or 1,000 operations,
then you choose to log it then.
You're getting the same quantity of data,
but you're no longer collecting a
complete picture of any of your users.
And so this is even better from a
privacy perspective than sampling
on a per-user or per-device basis.
Let's take a different log line
now and I want to talk about
derezzing or de-resolving the data.
So here's a log line.
Maybe you might see this one
on a server on a client that,
you know,
some action succeeded at that particular
time and precise number there,
22,341 bytes were sent.
And this looks like a pretty
anonymous log message.
It doesn't have that same sort
of path information in it.
But especially with
that precise byte count,
and let's say that this was a
client message and there's a
corresponding server message,
between that time stamp and the bytes,
you might be able to start to
recombine those two logs that
you thought were independent
because you can see that at 3:03,
22,341 bytes were sent.
And that would enable
you to re-correlate it.
It's a very precise sort of action.
And maybe you don't need this
level of precision in either
of those two dimensions.
So you might instead say, well,
we're really just doing
this for load testing and,
you know, planning for scale.
So I want to know the hour
of the day when this event
occurred and I want to know,
you know, to the kilobyte,
what data was sent.
But now if it was 22,341 or 22,342,
those would look the same in terms
of the number of kilobytes because
you've backed off the resolution
that you're logging that at.
And you should think about what
business or engineering decision is
driving your collection and maybe you
can again go even further and say,
well,
I don't need to know it was May 4th.
I just want to know what my
heavy day of the week is.
And actually, I don't need to know it
to the nearest kilobyte.
I can do it to the nearest 10 kilobytes.
Some simple math as you're writing
out that log line can really reduce
the resolution and therefore the
amount of privacy that's impacted
by logging this kind of message.
So you can de-resolve
virtually any precise thing,
a duration, a time stamp, a size,
any of those sorts of things.
Maybe it is the case, though,
that you do need this level of
precision in your log message,
that what you're actually doing is, say,
something to track abuse
or an anti-fraud mechanism.
You say, "No, no, no,
it's absolutely critical, actually,
that I know the precise number
of bytes that were sent."
And that may be true initially,
but you can also step back and think,
"Well, how long does that initial purpose
last for?" A couple days later,
do I really care about the precise
time that something happened?
Because then I was already under
a denial of service attack or not.
It's past.
And so maybe you can go through
and reprocess your logs,
say, after a week, and say,
"I don't need that
exact timestamp anymore.
I don't still have that need,
that purpose to hold on to
the timestamp." And then
you can keep on doing this.
So maybe after 30 days, you say, "Well,
the time doesn't matter at all now.
And in fact, whatever I was using the
individual bytes for,
now I don't need that either,
so I can back it off to the nearest
kilobyte." And this is something that you
have the opportunity to do on any device.
You have the opportunity
to do on any timescale,
right?
After six months, after two years,
you can continue to reduce the amount
that's held in each of these log files or
each of these kind of data collections.
And lastly, let's consider this log
message one more time.
And this time, notice that it's an
info-level message that says,
"Action succeeded," right?
It's not actually even
talking about an error.
And so you should ask yourself, "Well,
why am I collecting this?"
And you may well have an answer.
But if you can't answer to yourself
what purpose you have this data for,
then maybe it's better
just not to log it at all.
If you can't justify yourself why
you're holding onto this data,
it presents risk to you.
And the best thing you can do
for yourself and your users is
simply not to collect the data.
I put this one last so you
didn't just write me off as
a privacy nut on slide one.
But a lot of times, you can really just
not collect it at all,
and that's the very best thing that
you can do from a privacy perspective.
So I've covered these
six different techniques.
And like I said,
you're never going to use all of them.
But as you look at a piece of
data that you're collecting,
you should always reflect back on what
the business or engineering decision is
that's driving you to collect the data.
And insofar as possible,
use one of these techniques or something
similar to reduce the impact on privacy
while still bringing the benefits that
you're trying to bring for your users.
I covered a whole bunch of
very different things together,
so I wanted to put the headline bullets
together for you on one slide at the end.
First one,
discontinue the use of the UDID API and
you should adopt the replacements.
Pretty simple.
You want to take these new data
isolation classes on both OS X and iOS
and make sure that you're testing them.
And one more time,
fail gracefully if the user says no.
Give them a good experience.
We have support for purpose
strings inside of those consent
or those permission dialogs,
so add those to your info P list.
Go ahead and submit a privacy
statement to the App Store now.
It'll be displayed when
we update the App Store.
And lastly, as far as data collection,
make sure users know what you're
collecting and have some control over it.
And lastly,
collect only what data you need.
And that's it, so thank you very much.